# Molecular Biophysics Database (mbdb)

## Introduction

### What is the goal of the project?

This is the GitHub repository related to the data management part (WP4) of
[MOSBRI] The overall goal is to create a **public** database for deposition and
retrieval of data from biophysical experiments alongside the metadata in
accordance with the [FAIR principles] of data management.

To accomplish this, the project is divided into four parts that focus on:

- Standardisation of metadata and data formats
- Ensuring unique identification of biological and chemical species
- Launching a database instance to host the infrastructure metadata and data
- Generate an online user interface for deposition and retrieval of data

### What's this organisation for?

This organisation is used for sharing concrete tools and for keeping track of
 various specifications such as:

- Specifications of metadata
- Data format specifications
- Format converts and parsers
- Database schema
- Tools for interacting with identifier databases

It's also where bugs and suggestions to existing tools and specification can
be made by raising issues.

### Which decisions have been made?

Items that has been discussed in detail are included in this list. Items can be
added continuously, however, semantic changes to existing items **shouldn't**
be made unless very compelling arguments are presented:

- The Methods included are:
    1. MST/TRIC/Spectral Shift
    2. BLI 
    3. MST

- The next round of methods0 will be:
    1. Mass Photometry
    2. ITC

- Metadata (files) needs to be human readable
- Metadata should be made compatible with the [mmCIF/PDBx dictionary]
- Original data from instrument software should be stored and retrieved
alongside any format created by WP4
- Derived parameters (results) of experiments should be included in a record
- Representation of metadata in JSON is needed for deposition
- A custom [Invenio Framework] will be used for deposition, storage, and
retrieval of data and metadata

## Organisation of repositories

### mbdb-app

Where all the information (including the model) needed to install a running
instance of mbdb can be found.

### mbdb-model

Where the data models (including vocabularies), and tools for 
working with them, are being developed.

### mbdb-input-ui 

Where the deposition form is being developed.

### mbdb-parsing (private)

Where the tools for parsing data generated by instruments and users are
being developed. 

## How to contribute?

We welcome help! please go the respective repository you're interested in,
and see how you can best help. 

[MOSBRI]: https://www.mosbri.eu/
[FAIR principles]: https://doi.org/10.1038/sdata.2016.18
[mmCIF/PDBx dictionary]: https://mmcif.wwpdb.org/
[Invenio Framework]: https://invenio.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
